README.md, before:

# Snapdragons
Snapdragons population synthesis &amp; mock survey data generation code 

Input: N-body model.
Output: Stellar data.

Compile with:

gfortran PopSynth.F Gaia-errors.F TGAS-errors.F -o Snapdragons

(If you want to increase MN to include more than ~9125000 N-body particle model you may need to add -mcmodel=medium after TGAS-errors.F)

Input in PopSynth.F is

open(30,file='ini/input.dat',status='unknown')

c *** x,y,z(kpc),vx,vy,vz(km/s),metallicity(z),age(Gyr),mass(solar)

read(30,*,end=603) x_p,y_p,z_p,vx_p,vy_p,vz_p,z,tss,m_p

Output to GeneratedStars.dat or GeneratedStars.bin depending on the flag at the beginning

c *** Output to binary (1) or ASCII (0)? ***

Binary=0

You should also set magnitude limit up to which to generate the stars:

c *** Minimum magnitude necessary ***

      ChosenLim=16.0d0

      write(6,*) 'Limited to V<‘,ChosenLim

The Attached PopSynth.F has the full range of outputs turned on, but you can adjust that by taking out fields from the below 
print statement, and editing the 102 format label to show correct length.

Let me know if you can’t get it to work, or have any questions about what’s going on in there…

jason.hunt.11 (at) ucl.ac.uk

Cheers,
Jason

Outputs are:
                                write(10,102) (a(j),j=1,6),(ao(j),j=1,6)
     &                             ,(ae(j),j=1,6),(p(j),j=1,2)
     &                             ,(po(j),j=1,2),(pe(j),j=1,2)
     &                             ,vgen,d_p,x_p,y_p,z_p,vx_p,vy_p,vz_p
     &                             ,mgen,GRVS,VIgen,ex31,avgen
     &                             ,avgen-aigen,z,PAge,od_p,xo_p,yo_p
     &                             ,zo_p,vxo_p,vyo_p,vzo_p,vro_p,vroto_p
     &                             ,rp,vr_p,vrot_p,rop,makms,mdkms
     &                             ,makmso,mdkmso,l_p,b_p,lo_p,bo_p
     &                             ,vl_p,vb_p,vlo_p,vbo_p
     &                             ,ugen,bgen,rgen,jgen,hgen,kgen
     &                             ,Ue,Ve,We

Which are: 

1 true ra
2 true dec
3 true parallax
4 true pmra
5 true pmdec
6 true rv
7 observed ra
8 observed dec
9 observed parallax
10 observed pmra
11 observed pmdec
12 observed  rv
13 ra standard deviation 
14 dec standard deviation 
15 parallax standard deviation 
16 pmra standard deviation 
17 pmdec standard deviation 
18 rv standard deviation 
19 G Magnitude 
20 G_bp - G_rp
21 observed G Magnitude 
22 observed G_bp - G_rp 
23 G Magnitude Gaia standard deviation 
24 G_bp - G_rp Gaia standard deviation 
25 apparent V mag
26 distance from sun      
27 x 
28 y 
29 z 
30 vx 
31 vy 
32 vz 
33 mass (solar mass)
34 G_RVS
35 V-Igen
36 extinction
37 absolute V mag
38 absolute V-i 
39 metallicity z*10^6
40 Age (log10years)
41 observed distance
42 observed x    	
43 observed y 
44 observed z 
45 observed vx 
46 observed vy 
47 observed vz 
48 observed galactocentric vr
49 observed vrot
50 galactocentric radius
51 galactocentric vr
52 vrot
53 observed galactocentric radius
54 pmra (km/s)
55 pmdec (km/s)
56 observed pmra (km/s)
57 observed pmdec (km/s)
58 l
59 b
60 observed l
61 observed b
62 vl 
63 vb
64 observed vl
65 observed vb
66 u mag
67 b mag
68 r mag
69 j mag
70 h mag
71 k mag
72 Error on U
73 Error on V
74 error on W

Commit message:

Added google drive for extinction map files

README.md, after:

# Snapdragons
Snapdragons population synthesis &amp; mock survey data generation code 

Input: N-body model.
Output: Stellar data.

Compile with:

gfortran PopSynth.F Gaia-errors.F TGAS-errors.F -o Snapdragons

(If you want to increase MN to include more than ~9125000 N-body particle model you may need to add -mcmodel=medium after TGAS-errors.F)

(Note that the extinction maps are also available on https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B0xQIGDvKqHbbFNSRl9JVm90b2s. Some people have reported problems downloading them from git-lfs)

Input in PopSynth.F is

open(30,file='ini/input.dat',status='unknown')

c *** x,y,z(kpc),vx,vy,vz(km/s),metallicity(z),age(Gyr),mass(solar)

read(30,*,end=603) x_p,y_p,z_p,vx_p,vy_p,vz_p,z,tss,m_p

Output to GeneratedStars.dat or GeneratedStars.bin depending on the flag at the beginning

c *** Output to binary (1) or ASCII (0)? ***

Binary=0

You should also set magnitude limit up to which to generate the stars:

c *** Minimum magnitude necessary ***

      ChosenLim=16.0d0

      write(6,*) 'Limited to V<‘,ChosenLim

The Attached PopSynth.F has the full range of outputs turned on, but you can adjust that by taking out fields from the below 
print statement, and editing the 102 format label to show correct length.

Let me know if you can’t get it to work, or have any questions about what’s going on in there…

jason.hunt.11 (at) ucl.ac.uk

Cheers,
Jason

Outputs are:
                                write(10,102) (a(j),j=1,6),(ao(j),j=1,6)
     &                             ,(ae(j),j=1,6),(p(j),j=1,2)
     &                             ,(po(j),j=1,2),(pe(j),j=1,2)
     &                             ,vgen,d_p,x_p,y_p,z_p,vx_p,vy_p,vz_p
     &                             ,mgen,GRVS,VIgen,ex31,avgen
     &                             ,avgen-aigen,z,PAge,od_p,xo_p,yo_p
     &                             ,zo_p,vxo_p,vyo_p,vzo_p,vro_p,vroto_p
     &                             ,rp,vr_p,vrot_p,rop,makms,mdkms
     &                             ,makmso,mdkmso,l_p,b_p,lo_p,bo_p
     &                             ,vl_p,vb_p,vlo_p,vbo_p
     &                             ,ugen,bgen,rgen,jgen,hgen,kgen
     &                             ,Ue,Ve,We

Which are: 

1 true ra
2 true dec
3 true parallax
4 true pmra
5 true pmdec
6 true rv
7 observed ra
8 observed dec
9 observed parallax
10 observed pmra
11 observed pmdec
12 observed  rv
13 ra standard deviation 
14 dec standard deviation 
15 parallax standard deviation 
16 pmra standard deviation 
17 pmdec standard deviation 
18 rv standard deviation 
19 G Magnitude 
20 G_bp - G_rp
21 observed G Magnitude 
22 observed G_bp - G_rp 
23 G Magnitude Gaia standard deviation 
24 G_bp - G_rp Gaia standard deviation 
25 apparent V mag
26 distance from sun      
27 x 
28 y 
29 z 
30 vx 
31 vy 
32 vz 
33 mass (solar mass)
34 G_RVS
35 V-Igen
36 extinction
37 absolute V mag
38 absolute V-i 
39 metallicity z*10^6
40 Age (log10years)
41 observed distance
42 observed x    	
43 observed y 
44 observed z 
45 observed vx 
46 observed vy 
47 observed vz 
48 observed galactocentric vr
49 observed vrot
50 galactocentric radius
51 galactocentric vr
52 vrot
53 observed galactocentric radius
54 pmra (km/s)
55 pmdec (km/s)
56 observed pmra (km/s)
57 observed pmdec (km/s)
58 l
59 b
60 observed l
61 observed b
62 vl 
63 vb
64 observed vl
65 observed vb
66 u mag
67 b mag
68 r mag
69 j mag
70 h mag
71 k mag
72 Error on U
73 Error on V
74 error on W
